conscious and unconscious do not make a
hole when one of them is suppressed and
injured by the other if they must
contend let it at least be a fair fight
with equal rights on both sides both are
aspects of life call young in my
previous video about the shadow I've
discussed the world of the unconscious
and how we can recognize its
manifestations in our behavior according
to Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung the
ultimate self realization is the
integration of the unconscious into the
conscious this is called the
individuation process first of all thank
you Daniel for your generous PayPal
donation and thank you Matt and seeking
spire for supporting me on patreon I
appreciate it very much
now let's dive in the process of
individuation is complicated so for
making this video I've tried to simplify
the information I found when studying it
and combine it with a few observations
before we get into the individuation
process itself it is essential to
clarify the Associated elements the self
the ego the persona the conscious and
unconscious the shadow and the anima and
animus now according to Jung at the core
of our personality there's something
called the self the self is the totality
of the conscious and unconscious the
problem however is that the vast
majority of the self lies hidden in the
unconscious part that unconscious cannot
be entered there's a personal
unconscious that consists of all
information of an individual's mind
which is not readily available like
repressed or forgotten memories about
oneself or the environment there's also
a collective unconscious that is
basically the same for all human beings
and probably shared among all members of
the same species for example dogs are
collectively driven by the same
instincts the same is true for humans
you noticed that the human collective
unconscious brings forth a series of
Arctic
figures as well which are universal
symbols that we see in mythologies all
across the world these archetypes tend
to appear in dreams - examples of these
are the hero the trickster the wise old
man the Great Mother and even God these
figures are not fixed archetypes
themselves but rather representations of
what lingers in the unconscious in an
archaic language that most humans would
recognize I've called these motifs
archetypes and by this I mean forms or
images of a collective nature which
occur practically all over the earth as
constituents of myths and at the same
time as at Oksana's individual products
of unconscious origin said young before
we dive deeper into the unconscious I
would like to explore the four main
elements that we'll find across the
conscious and unconscious which make up
the psyche and thus form the self these
are the ego the persona the shadow the
enema or animus the ego rests on the
conscious as well as the unconscious and
is basically the story we tell ourselves
about who we are which is accumulated
over the years by different experiences
but also a direct product of the
realization that we are in a way
separate from others this realization
happens in early childhood when an
infant starts to use the word I that
refers to the ego the ego is the center
of the field of consciousness but not
the center of the personality since it
is still subordinated to the self the
persona is the mask we wear in order to
conform to society we could describe it
as the societal role we quote unquote
wear in order to fit in
based on norms and ethics an example is
the definition of masculinity and
femininity what does it mean to be a man
or a woman most cultures and subcultures
propose certain criteria for this and
the persona is the product of us meeting
these criteria to fit in the persona is
nothing more than a superficial
construct of how we want the world to
perceive us the shadow lies in the
unconscious and consists of undesirable
characteristics that we
repressed and want to keep in the dark
this happens consciously as well as
unconsciously Hume stated that the less
the shadow is embodied in the
individuals conscious life the blacker
and denser it is I quote if the
repressed tendencies the shadow as I
call them were obviously evil there
would be no problem whatever but the
shadow is merely somewhat inferior
primitive unadapted and awkward not
wholly bad it even contains childish or
primitive qualities which would in a way
vitalize and embellish human existence
but convention forbids and quote many
people aren't even aware that they have
a shadow when parts of it inevitably
come to the surface they tend to brush
this off as something outside themselves
I've created a separate video about the
shadow you'll find a link at the top of
the screen according to Jung in every
meal there's a female and then every
female there's a meal both hidden in the
unconscious part of the psyche this
doesn't mean that we have completely
separate human beings inside of us
rather it means that men possess
characteristics that are classically
considered feminine and women possess
considered masculine Hume calls the
feminine part of the male the anima and
the masculine part of the female the
Animus now we have created a map of the
psyche according to the ideas of Jung
it's time to talk about the
individuation process individuation is
the integration of unconscious elements
of the psyche as far as this is possible
into the wholeness of the personality
generally this process goes naturally
when we get older but there's also the
possibility to stimulate it by forms of
intervention like therapy this means
that the ego should first of all
acknowledge that it is not the center of
the psyche and that a great part of who
we truly are lurks in the darkness of
the unconscious but if we understand
anything of the unconscious we know that
it cannot be swallowed we also know that
it is dangerous to suppress it because
the unconscious is life and this life
turns against us if suppressed as
happens in neurosis Sathyam so making
the unconscious conscious can never be
done in its entirety because there
simply are areas of the psyche that we
cannot enter part of the individuation
process is the integration of the shadow
in a practical sense this would mean
that we should not only become aware of
our dark side we should incorporate it
in our conscious personality as well
exploring the unconscious means that we
have to take certain elements of our
personality to the surface that aren't
pretty as Jung stated and I quote
individuation is an exceedingly
difficult task it always involves a
conflict of duties whose solution
requires us to understand that a counter
will is also an aspect of God's will and
quote in other words our dark side is as
valuable as our light side another
dimension is the confrontation with the
contrast sexual part of our psyche known
as the anima or animus in many cases men
have not incorporated their feminine
aspects in a healthy way and the same is
true for women and their masculine
aspects chances are high that we have
repressed the masculine or feminine side
of ourselves in its completeness which
is equivalent to throwing away the baby
with the bathwater the goal here is a
healthy integration of the anima or
animus which will actually empower our
personalities regardless of what sex we
are there's also the possibility of
unhealthy integration which manifests
itself as harmful and negative aspects
of the opposite sex
therefore toxic masculinity can very
much be part of female behavior and
toxic femininity something less talked
about can be part of meal behavior when
it comes to individuation there's no
one-size-fits-all so it's up to the
individual to bring forth the
unconscious and decide the necessary
steps because individuation is an
essence and natural process it cannot be
forced within a certain time frame
self-realization is something that can
take a lifetime and very well may never
be completed before
we meet the grave thank you for watching
[Music]